docs/walkthrough/shipping.rst, before:

.. _walkthrough_shipping:

Configuring Shipping
====================

Now we can display products and add them to the basket, we must configure our shipping rates
before setting up the checkout process.


Per Country Rates
------------------

Shipping rates are set on a per-country basis via the ``Shipping`` page in the wagtail admin. 

In the image below, we set a standard rate for the UK. It is possible to select multiple countries
for a rate to apply to. We can also create more than one shipping rate for the same country.

  .. figure:: ../_static/images/shipping.png

Default Shipping Rate
---------------------

We can configure a default shipping rate to apply to all countries we have not explicitly specified. 

.. note:: By enabling default shipping, you imply that you ship to *all* countries. If you do not wish this
  you should *not* enable default shipping. 

To enable default shipping:

- Select ``settings`` from the wagtail admin menu
- Select ``Longclaw Settings``
- Fill in ``Default Shipping Rate`` and ``Default Shipping Carrier``
- Ensure ``Enable Default Shipping`` is checked.

  .. figure:: ../_static/images/default_shipping.png

Currency
********

You can also define the currency in ``Longclaw Settings``. This applies site wide. It is mostly semantic -
Longclaw assumes all calculations & prices are in the same currency - however some payment gateways require the 
currency to be specified.

Commit message:

Longclaw 1.0 (#205)
* Compatibility with Wagtail 2 and Django 2
* Fixes #154 

Wagtail 2 compatibility:

* Fixes references to Wagtail packages which use the `wagtail.wagtail*` naming scheme. Wagtail 2 removes the redundancy.
* Wraps imports in `try`/`except` blocks to maintain compatibility with Wagtail 1.

Django 2 comaptibility:

Included because Wagtail 2 adds support for Django 2.

* Adds `on_delete` to all `ForeignKey` model fields, which is now required by Django 2.

* Updates for wagtail 2

* rename modules

* Longclaw v2: Rename and new migrations

* Longclaw 2: Reduce fails to 2 errors

* Longclaw v2: All tests passing

* Update travisconf

* Travis: Enable py37

* Update project template for v2

* longclawv2: update project template

* Fix migrations for longclaw 2

* Corrections in project template for longclaw1.0

* Correct location of templates and update docs

* Automatically load shipping countries

* Add loadcountries command

* Add info on loading country data

docs/walkthrough/shipping.rst, after:

.. _walkthrough_shipping:

Configuring Shipping
====================

Now we can display products and add them to the basket, we must configure our shipping rates
before setting up the checkout process.


Per Country Rates
------------------

Shipping rates are set on a per-country basis via the ``Shipping`` page in the wagtail admin. 
Initially, no countries will be available - Longclaw comes with a set of country data which can be loaded into the database
using the ``loadcountries`` command:

  .. code-block:: bash
    
    python manage.py loadcountries


In the image below, we set a standard rate for the UK. It is possible to select multiple countries
for a rate to apply to. We can also create more than one shipping rate for the same country.

  .. figure:: ../_static/images/shipping.png

Default Shipping Rate
---------------------

We can configure a default shipping rate to apply to all countries we have not explicitly specified. 

.. note:: By enabling default shipping, you imply that you ship to *all* countries. If you do not wish this
  you should *not* enable default shipping. 

To enable default shipping:

- Select ``settings`` from the wagtail admin menu
- Select ``Longclaw Settings``
- Fill in ``Default Shipping Rate`` and ``Default Shipping Carrier``
- Ensure ``Enable Default Shipping`` is checked.

  .. figure:: ../_static/images/default_shipping.png

Currency
********

You can also define the currency in ``Longclaw Settings``. This applies site wide. It is mostly semantic -
Longclaw assumes all calculations & prices are in the same currency - however some payment gateways require the 
currency to be specified.
